---
title: Merry Christmas and Happy 218.3 
layout: post
---

Hi everyone ! Today, we are glad to give you our Christmas present (even though
it's still a little early for Christmas, but you get the idea), Dos9's version
218.3. 

This new version include new features and bug fixes that will be listed below.
If you can't stand waiting to test it, just check it out and download it at
the [download](/download) page.

## Modules ##

In this version, much effort has been put into adding a module capability to
Dos9. This enables custom commands to be added to Dos9 by loading an external
file at run time, keeping the interpreter itself small, and enabling more
customisation. This also implies that you can code custom commands without
having to mess with the whole code.

Modules must be loaded using the [MOD](/doc/mod) command. After this command
has performed successfully, custom commands can directly be used.

Custom commands included in modules can affect Dos9 internal environment and
its parameters. However, they can not modify the syntax itself and can not use
blocks as [IF](/doc/if) or [FOR](/doc/for) do. If you are tempted by writing
some modules, check out the **GUIDELINES.md** file in the source distribution.
 
## Batbox Module ##

Support for the original **batbox** command has been dropped years ago.
However, even though there are good alternatives out there, many batch
programmer never quit using it. That's why we decided the very first module
for Dos9 would be the [BATBOX](/doc/batbox). This module can be loaded using:

````
MOD batbox
```

Once loaded, an enhanced version of the original **batbox** command can
called. This command is extremely useful to display graphics at the console
and getting all sorts of input (mouse or keyboard) from the user.

The big news is the possibility to use variables to retrieve mouse or keyboard
input, for example:

```
batbox /k key
:: or
batbox /m x y type
```

## VER command ##

Thanks to the contribution of Xenoxis, the [VER](/doc/ver) command has been
added to Dos9. This command enables getting specific version informations about
the OS that could not be retrieved using `%DOS9_OS%`.

## Fixes ##

* A bunch of fixes to the autocompletion feature that is quit stable now.
* Several bugfixes to the core of Dos9 to solve parsing issue.
* Modification of `%PATH%` search behaviour: now the interpreters only search
  in %PATH% sub-folders when the relative path do not include sub-folders.
* Fixes to the [SET /a](/doc/setaf) command.

All the fixes are detailed in the **WHATSNEW.md** file of the source
distribution.

## That's all folks ... ##

Well, that's pretty much every new feature, we still have lots of projects
for Dos9, but that will be for another version, coming as soon as possible.
Until then, have fun, a merry Christmas and a happy new year. 
