---
title: 218.1 is out !
description: The new version of Picobat is out !
layout: post
---

Hi guys ! I am proud to announce that the new version of Picobat is out.
There is quite a long while since I have posted a new version of Picobat.
Quite a lot of changes have been made since last year.

## New features ##

There is two main new features interpreter **multi-threading** and
operators **precedence**

### Multi-threading ###

The biggest flaw (in terms of execution speed) of Picobat under windows
was certainly the need to start new `dos9` processes regularly. Indeed,
commands like `echo test | find "test"` require a new process to be
started (`FOR` had a somehow similar behaviour). In a batch, where this
commands can be ran hundred times, it resulted in a significant speed
penalty.

The version `218.1` solves this by just spawning separate threads inside
a single Picobat interpreter, So that it gets faster than ever !

## Precedence ##

Picobat behaviour used to be a bit awkward as since the very first versions
the redirection operators (`>`) owned precedence over all conditional
operators (`&`, `&&`, `|` and `||`).

This behaviour has now changed and lines like the following are perfectly
valid :

````````
echo test > file & dir > fd
````````

Compatibility between `dos9` and `cmd.exe` has greatly been improved.

### Minor changes ###

There is also a few minor changes since the last release:

- The file searching functions has been strongly optimized.

- Great improvement in the manual, especially for the English
translation.

- New, easy-to-use build system.

- Lots of minor bug-fixes.

## Getting the new version ##

Sounds cool isn't it ? Go and get the new [dos9 bundle](/download)
